Good morning, everyone.
So I have a bit of a horse voice because I was at Mumford and Sons until 1am last night.
And I also had a bit of a migraine this morning, so hopefully I'll get through this.
This morning, we are going to be continuing our Fear Not series and looking at battles in the mind.
I did want to acknowledge because some of what I'm going to talk about could be a little abstract.
And some of us will
be feeling a weight of losing our beloved toli two weeks ago.
And I just want to give you permission.
Take in whatever I say that God ministers to you and ignore whatever I say that doesn't.
My goal this morning is to comfort not to pressure.
So I'll start with our passage.
Two Corinthians 10 verses four to five.
Though we walk in the flesh, we do not walk according to the flesh.
for the weapons of our warfare are not of a flesh, but mighty before God to the casting down of strongholds, casting down imaginations, and every high thing that's exalted against the knowledge of God, and bringing every thought into captivity to be obedience of Christ.
So let me start with a story.
I'll be wondering why I've got this boat.
Imagine this is a handmade boat, not a factory-made boat.
So if I was once a boy,
and he decided to make a boat and he poured over it.
He focused on the mast, he carved out for shape, he waterproofed it, he painted it perfectly, he spent days and days making this perfect boat and he would take it out onto the lake and he loved just seeing it float off.
But one day it floated off too far and it went out of sight and he lost his boat and he was distraught, he was really sad.
So a few weeks past, there's nothing he could do.
And he was in a toy shop, and in the shop was his boat.
And he thought, that's my boat.
And he took it to a shopkeeper, and he said, this is my boat, and a shopkeeper went, no, it's my boat.
I found it on a lake.
It's mine.
You have to buy it if you want it.
So the boy was nothing he can do.
He goes home, breaks his piggy bank of his parents, has just enough money to buy his boat.
So he goes back to the shop, pays all of his money, buys the boat,
And when he's walking up a shop and he's really glad and he goes, you're mine twice, mine because I made you, mine because I bore you.
And that's exactly what God says to us.
God made us, we have already his, but he loves us so much.
He respects our choice, our ability to choose so much that he would rather give his own life to buyers, again, by dying for us.
That's how much he loves us.
That's just my intro story.
But I wanted to remind you from a start.
God's love for us is steady and it's unchanging.
No matter how we're feeling, he so fiercely and passionately loves you.
More faithfully than the best of parents.
More intimately than a lover.
More unconditionally than a young child loves their parent.
And grasping more of a depths of God's love for us every day, I think is one of the most foundational truths we can have as a Christian that we build the rest of our faith on.
So let me tell you another story, this one from a Gospel of John.
John 13, 18 to 25 and 31 to 38.
Sorry, it's cut off a little there.
Jesus' words, he's just told them he's going to die, and he's just washed their feet.
And he says, very truly, I tell you, one of you is going to betray me.
His disciples stared at one another at a loss to know which of them he meant.
One of them, a disciple who Jesus loved, was reclining next to him.
Simon, Peter, motioned to his disciple and asked, and said, ask him which one he means.
Leaning back against Jesus, John asked him, Lord, who is it?
Jesus then indicates who it is and says it's Judas essentially.
Judas leaves.
When Judas was gone, Jesus said, now the Son of man is glorified and God is glorified in him.
If God is glorified in him, God will glorify the Son in himself and will glorify him at once.
My children, I will be with you only a little longer.
You will look for me and just as I told the Jews, so I tell you now, while I am going, you cannot come.
And you command, I give you love one another, as I have loved you, so you must love one another.
By this, everyone will know that you're my disciples if you love one another.
Simon, Peter, asked him, Lord, where are you going?
Jesus replied, where I'm going, you cannot follow now, but you will follow later.
And Peter asked, Lord, why can't I follow you now?
I'll lay down my life for you.
And Jesus answered, will you really do your life for me?
Very truly, I tell you, before the rooster crows, you'll disown me three times.
And what strikes me about this passage of motion is a contrast between John and Peter.
So John, the book of the gospel of John is very well known as the book that made us on God's love.
And I think when you read the gospel, it can be tempting to think, John's a bit arrogant.
He's talking about how God loves him.
God loves everyone.
Or you can take a different tack and think maybe there was something special about John that Jesus loved, something unique.
Maybe Jesus did love John a little bit more.
Lever, of course, are true at all.
What I would suggest is that John understood more than any other disciples how much Jesus loved him.
In contrast, look at Peter.
When Jesus says he's going to die, the first thing Jesus is doing is he's declaring his love for Jesus, expressing his devotion.
God, I will do anything with a song.
I'll go anywhere.
I'll do anything for you.
It's one of my all-time favorites.
There's another one.
I have to sing it.
And that kind of
I love it, I love it, saying to God, I will give you everything.
And I think when you're singing it, you're really meaning it.
But what Jesus does here, when Peter's doing that, he actually reminds him of his limitations.
He says, Peter, actually, you're going to deny me three times.
Yes, you are going to die for me.
But first, you're going to deny me.
And in this passage, Peter emphasizes his love for Jesus.
John emphasizes Jesus' love for him.
And if I'm honest, I find Peter easier to relate to.
I'm often very eager to show God how much I'm dedicated to him.
And this is important, but the problem is we can, the risk is that we place our trust in our devotion, not in the one we are devoted to.
I think we can sometimes behave in one of two different ways.
First is the Christian who, like Peter, focuses on their dedication to the Lord.
They're constantly seeking to show God and others, including themselves, how committed they are to God.
They take pride in their obedience, I do.
In their giving, in their loving, in their serving, in their holiness, you see how that's really interesting, because they're all good things, but you can take pride in doing them.
Second is the Christian who, like John, lives out of a position of embracing God's love for them.
They're the kind of people you'll know some who are content with what they have.
They're given a very unseen way because they have all the approval they'll ever need.
They're happy to display their flaws, keep their successes private because it's not about them.
And if I'm honest, in any given week, I can behave like both.
In a given day, in an hour,
If I'm going to be someone who is like John, it might take more embracing my weakness, letting go of having to be strong and upright, preaching eloquently, drumming really well.
It might take acknowledging my lack and thanking God for his sufficiency.
So I ask you, when you think back through your week, has that come out of a place of self-sufficiency or God's sufficiency?
We can sometimes kid ourselves that this makes us more lovable to him, but nothing we ever do can.
There's a book I read earlier this year called The Ragabuffin Gospel by Brendan Manning, and it's fantastic.
One of those books where every page, you feel like you need to make a note of every page, what you say.
And he makes a similar point.
He says, are you afraid that your weakness could separate you from a love of Christ?
It can't.
Are you afraid that your inadequacies could separate you from the love of Christ?
Are you afraid that your inner poverty could separate you from the love of Christ?
It can't.
Difficult marriage, loneliness, anxiety over your children's future, they can't.
Negative self-image, it can't.
Rejection by loved ones or the suffering of loved ones, they can't.
Persecution by authorities, going to jail, they can't.
Mistakes, fears, uncertainties, they can't.
The love of Christ that is stronger than death endures forever.
In the end, it's the one thing you can hang on to.
So I've taken some time to speak about God's love, and you might be thinking, what's that got to do with a battle of a mind?
And that's because I think understanding and embracing God's love is the most foundational starting point for the battle of the mind, remembering the truth of his love.
So I'm gonna read that to Corinthians passage again, and then we'll look at battles in the mind.
Though we walk in the flesh, we do not war according to the flesh, the weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but mighty before God to the casting down of strongholds.
casting down imaginations and every high thing that is exalted against the knowledge of God and bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ.
When I read that passage, the first thing I noticed was a word, imaginations and thoughts.
Now, it is very true there is a spiritual battle in the heavenly realms that is apart from us, but that's not what this passage is saying.
This passage is saying there is a battle
going on in our minds.
And Paul, very interestingly, he takes the concept of our thoughts and holds it apart for himself.
He suggests that we should be interrogating our thoughts.
And I think sometimes we can just assume all of our thoughts are us.
We can just accept them hook line and sinker.
If you think it, that's what we are.
But we need to be weighing our thoughts, mindful of them.
He's actually talking about self-awareness, but the problem with the world is it talks about self-awareness and when it stops there, the point of self-awareness is to get somewhere with God.
So, Derek Prince, who's a very well-known 20th century preacher, talks a lot about this.
He talks about how some of our thoughts are from our soul and our spirit, which are our very essence.
When we're born again with Jesus, our spirit is in line with his heart.
Other thoughts come from our flesh, a part of us that is still prone to sin.
Those thoughts in one sense are ours, but in another sense we're a part of what Paul elsewhere calls the old man.
And these types of thoughts put us and others above God.
Another thoughts don't originate in us at all, but are suggested from outside.
They might be accusations like you're not good enough or
despairing lies like you'll never change or darker whispers that don't reflect God's heart for us.
It's not always obvious where a thought comes from, which is why we need a standard to measure them by, and the word of God is our only safe standard.
How do we fight the last two types of thoughts from our flesh and from the enemy?
First, by using a word of God, and second, by doing what the passage says,
taking our thoughts captive to be obedience of Christ.
I'm emphasizing those words, you'll see why later.
Hebrews 4-12.
Yeah, we're not quite there yet.
For the word of God is alive and active, sharp of an any double edged sword.
It penetrates even to the dividing soul and spirit, joints and marrow.
It judges a fortune, attitudes of the heart.
Ephesians 6 talks about how the word of God is the sort of spirit.
In our Bibles, which we have immediate access to on all of our phones, God's very spirit flows through the pages that we read.
By reading it, absorbing it, dwelling on it, we are given the power to be able to deal with and welcome thoughts.
And our Bible is not just a book or collection of books.
Many have died trying to get it into our hands.
Many still do.
in their own language.
There was a time when it wasn't in a common tongue for anyone in England.
And if we're honest, we hardly read it as much as we should.
And there is something powerful that happens when you absorb God's words in the Bible.
A second way I suggest we can deal with and welcome forts is, as our passage says, taking our forts
captive to the obedience of Christ.
So you've had a little sneak peek already.
So those three words in the Greek are, Hupukku to Christu.
And they literally mean obedience of Christ.
Now, you might notice if you're reading it in your Bible, different translations either say, obedience of Christ or obedient to Christ.
And they suggest slightly different things.
Now,
That's why I wanted to look at the Greek.
The word to is a possessive word, it means of, and it's attached to crease dew.
So it's not talking about our obedience, it's saying taking our thoughts captive to Christ's obedience.
And I think maybe the reason why some of our translations don't say that is because when you think, what does that mean?
Let me suggest what it might mean.
Romans 5, 9, 19.
Just as through the disobedience of the one man, for many were made sinners.
So also through the obedience of the one man, Jesus, for many will be made righteous.
So this is a letter written to the Jewish Christians.
They had an understanding of the Old Testament law.
Paul is talking about what some have since called the concept of original sin.
Adam, the first man in
sentence, originally sinned and chose to disobey God.
He put himself first, and as a result, all mankind fell and succumbed to sin.
And when the passage compares that to Jesus' obedience, Jesus took our place.
He bore the penalty of our sin, which is spiritual death.
Jesus was obedient in his life and his death.
And as a result, those who accept him are made righteous.
That is our weapon.
Christ's obedience that leads to our righteousness, being called sons and daughters of God, co-heirs with him, spotless, blameless.
My late grandfather died in 2020, and he was a Baptist, and he was a fantastic man of prayer.
And he always used to talk about standing on the promises of God and standing on our righteousness through Jesus.
And we wrote a few letters to each other just before he died.
And I'm gonna read you a bit, one sentence, two.
Let me give you another example.
I don't know if Lucy knows I'm about to make this example.
Sometimes on a Sunday morning when me and Lucy are getting her children ready for church and the chaos with that entails getting them to church for a correct time sometimes early, me and Lucy can be on edge and we can sometimes argue.
And when we argue, often I will say things aren't very nice, mean, things are essentially sinful and that is a problem.
The difficulty sometimes is that you then arrive at church and you've got to immediately be with everyone and you're singing worship songs.
And I'm not quick enough to humble myself and say sorry to Lucy Fastaloff sometimes.
And I come into church and we just talk you and we haven't resolved.
And let me start singing worship.
And as this thought that enters my mind and it's you're not worthy to worship, you've just sinned against your wife.
Now,
There's a balance here, because it is very important, but Bible verses, about how we should stop what we are doing if we are worshiped, if we have something for the altar, and we should go in reconcile, and I need to be humble.
But my actions in the kind do not disqualify me from being in God's presence.
And it's a hard balance to keep, owning my wrongdoing, but not letting it exclude me from God's presence.
There's a sense in which God's fellowship and intimacy can lift from us.
Artita Kendall talks about it like a dove, but gently lifts off.
That is nothing to do with our worthiness, our position, and our status before God when we know Him.
We don't yo-yo in and out of a kingdom and His favor.
We shouldn't take advantage of our position.
In fact, Romans 6, the whole of Romans 6 is all about that, by no means.
But once you are in Christ, your position is no longer dependent on your performance.
It's dependent on his promises and he never breaks them.
I think we are often quite quick to accept that those who don't know Jesus can never achieve holiness and perfection on their own by their own doing, only by Jesus.
But by the same logic,
Those who do know Jesus shouldn't think their position is ever dependent on their actions.
Ephesians 2.89 says, for it is by grace you have been saved through faith.
This is not from yourselves.
It's a gift of God, not by works, so that no one can boast.
This is all because of what Jesus has done through his obedience and as receiving this, with the gift of faith, we are made righteous, no matter our actions.
This is the weapon Paul's talking about.
It's what we can use to take our thoughts captive, the impenetrable reality of our righteousness in Christ.
So a few questions for you.
Do you have sinful thoughts?
Declare over yourself, I am the righteousness of God in Christ.
Do you feel inadequate when you are around other Christians?
Declare over yourself, I am worthy because of Jesus.
Do you feel condemned?
Speak the truth of your spotless appearance before God.
Do you feel neglected?
Looked at the eternal God who became man and was obedient in dying for you to welcome you into eternal intimate relationship with him?
And that's where our earlier thoughts on God's love come in.
Only when you embrace God's love for you can you accept the reality of what that love means for you.
Otherwise you consider yourself unworthy, you can't grasp a truth.
You keep looking back and going, no, but I don't deserve it.
No, you don't.
He still declares it's true.
How deep is his love for you abundant?
His death was not, I love this, his death was not an equal trade when compared to Adam's sin.
A passage in Romans 5 is very well known for using a phrase much more four times, apparently five, but I can only count four, when describing what Jesus has done.
So I'll give you one.
For if many died by the trespass of one man, how much more did God's grace and the gift that came by the grace of one man, Jesus Christ, overflow to the many?
God's work on the cross for you was an overpayment
It was abundantly more than you needed.
Imagine I borrow your coffee mug.
And when I'm using it, I accidentally break it and I say, I'm so sorry.
Let me buy you a new mug and you say, no, no, it's fine.
And I go, no, let me get you a new mug.
And the next morning, I show up and I have a full 12 piece dinner plate made of China with hundreds of pounds plates, bowls, mugs, platters, and I give it all to you.
All matching.
I haven't replaced the mug.
I've overpaid for the mug.
And that's what Jesus has done.
It wasn't more than we needed.
He doesn't say more.
He says much more, way more.
That grace and love, displayed on the cross through Jesus's obedience, which achieves our acceptance and relationship with Him, that's your weapon.
to conclude.
We should hold our thoughts at arm's length, interrogate them.
The word of God is critical as a powerful tool.
And our righteousness, giving to us through Christ's obedience, is our weapon.
And this is only embraced when we have an understanding and acceptance in our hearts of God's love for us.
So I'd love to respond.
And it's easier if I could invite you if you're able to stand.
So would you like to stand?